TELCODOCS-425: Add capability to take CPUs offline via NTO (#45299)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/cnf-provisioning-real-time-and-low-latency-workloads.adoc

[id="cnf-provisioning-real-time-and-low-latency-workloads_{context}"]
= Provisioning real-time and low latency workloads

> Many industries and organizations need extremely high performance computing and might require low and predictable latency, especially in the financial and telecommunications industries. For these industries, with their unique requirements, {product-title} provides a Node Tuning Operator to implement automatic tuning to achieve low latency performance and consistent response time for {product-title} applications.

Reviewer: Performance Addon

> Many industries and organizations need extremely high performance computing and might require low and predictable latency, especially in the financial and telecommunications industries. For these industries, with their unique requirements, {product-title} provides a Performance Addon controller to implement automatic tuning to achieve low latency performance and consistent response time for {product-title} applications.

Reviewer 2: Do we need to update Performance Addon Operator -> Performance Addon controller throughout the docs? 
According to Atom (not sure which feature branch):  97 results found in 35 file for Performance Addon Operator

Author: Yes, that is covered by [TELCODOCS-580](https://issues.redhat.com//browse/TELCODOCS-580). There are several writers working on the relevant files and we're working together to catch all instances.

The cluster administrator can use this performance profile configuration to make these changes in a more reliable way. The administrator can specify whether to update the kernel to kernel-rt (real-time), reserve CPUs for cluster and operating system housekeeping duties, including pod infra containers, isolate CPUs for application containers to run the workloads, and disable unused CPUs to reduce power consumption.

[WARNING]
====
The usage of execution probes in conjunction with applications that require guaranteed CPUs can cause latency spikes. It is recommended to use other probes, such as a properly configured set of network probes, as an alternative.
====

[NOTE]
====

> In earlier versions of {product-title}, the Performance Addon Operator was used to implement automatic tuning to achieve low latency performance for OpenShift applications. In {product-title} {product-version}, these functions are part of the Node Tuning Operator.

Reviewer 2: s/{product-version}/{product-version} and later ??

> In earlier versions of {product-title}, the Performance Addon Operator was used to implement automatic tuning to achieve low latency performance for OpenShift applications. In {product-title} {product-version} and later, these functions are part of the Node Tuning Operator.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In earlier versions of {product-title}, the Performance Addon Operator was used to implement automatic tuning to achieve low latency performance for OpenShift applications. In {product-title} 4.11 and later, these functions are part of the Node Tuning Operator.
```

You can't use the macro here I think, because in 4.12, 4.13.. it would say "In OCP 4.13 and later..." and we do not want that.

[id="performance-addon-operator-provisioning-worker-with-real-time-capabilities_{context}"]
== Provisioning a worker with real-time capabilities

> . Install Node Tuning Operator to the cluster.

Reviewer: NTO is installed by default, this should be Performance Addon

+
[NOTE]
====

> You must decide which nodes are configured with real-time workloads. You could configure all of the nodes in the cluster, or a subset of the nodes. The Node Tuning Operator that expects all of the nodes are part of a dedicated machine config pool. If you use all of the nodes, you must point the Node Tuning Operator to the worker node role label. If you use a subset, you must group the nodes into a new machine config pool.

Reviewer: Performance Addon

* The pod must have the `cpu-load-balancing.crio.io: true` annotation.

> The Node Tuning Operator is responsible for the creation of the high-performance runtime handler config snippet under relevant nodes and for creation of the high-performance runtime class under the cluster. It will have the same content as default runtime handler except it enables the CPU load balancing configuration functionality.

Reviewer: Performance Addon

Use label selectors that match the nodes attached to the machine config pool that was configured for low latency by the Performance Addon Operator. For more information, see link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/assign-pod-node/[Assigning pods to nodes].

[id="performance-addon-operator-disabling-CPUs-for-power-consumption_{context}"]
== Reducing power consumption by taking CPUs offline

You can generally anticipate telecommunication workloads. When not all of the CPU resources are required, the Performance Addon Operator allows you take unused CPUs offline to reduce power consumption by manually updating the performance profile.

. Update the performance profile.

.. Review the YAML file by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ cat my-performance-profile.yaml
----
+
.Example output
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: performance.openshift.io/v2
kind: PerformanceProfile
metadata:
  name: performance
spec:
  additionalKernelArgs:
  - nmi_watchdog=0
  - audit=0
  - mce=off
  - processor.max_cstate=1
  - intel_idle.max_cstate=0
  - idle=poll
  cpu:
    isolated: "2-23,26-47"
    reserved: "0,1,24,25,48-59"

>     offlined: “”

Reviewer: offlined field is not present in 4.9

Author: I added an example from 4.9 and updated it with the `offlined` field for 4.11. 
If there are any other changes from 4.9 to 4.11 that should be reflected in the docs, let me know!

Reviewer: ok, understood. It's the only change.
Everything seems ok. Thanks

Reviewer 4: @amolnar-rh  may we should specify that "offlined: "" " doesn't actually offline any cpus. 

Also the offlined: Parameters in spec is optional

[id="performance-addon-operator-scheduling-workload-onto-worker-with-real-time-capabilities_{context}"]
== Scheduling a workload onto a worker with real-time capabilities

Use label selectors that match the nodes attached to the machine config pool that was configured for low latency by the Node Tuning Operator. For more information, see link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/assign-pod-node/[Assigning pods to nodes].

[id="node-tuning-operator-disabling-CPUs-for-power-consumption_{context}"]
== Reducing power consumption by taking CPUs offline

> You can generally anticipate telecommunication workloads. When not all of the CPU resources are required, the Performance Addon Conroller allows you take unused CPUs offline to reduce power consumption by manually updating the performance profile.

Reviewer 5: Just a few super tiny spelling nits:
`Performance Addon Conroller` -> `Performance Addon Controller`

[id="performance-addon-operator-scheduling-workload-onto-worker-with-real-time-capabilities_{context}"]
== Scheduling a workload onto a worker with real-time capabilities

> Use label selectors that match the nodes attached to the machine config pool that was configured for low latency by the Performance Addon controller. For more information, see link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/assign-pod-node/[Assigning pods to nodes].

Reviewer 2: Yeah. Probably not worth moving to an Additional Resource. I'll leave it up to you.

[id="node-tuning-operator-disabling-CPUs-for-power-consumption_{context}"]
== Reducing power consumption by taking CPUs offline

You can generally anticipate telecommunication workloads. When not all of the CPU resources are required, the Performance Addon conroller allows you take unused CPUs offline to reduce power consumption by manually updating the performance profile.

To take unusued CPUs offline, you must perform the following tasks:

. Update the performance profile.

.. Review the YAML file by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ cat my-performance-profile.yaml
----
+
.Example output
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: performance.openshift.io/v2
kind: PerformanceProfile
metadata:
  name: performance
spec:
  additionalKernelArgs:
  - nmi_watchdog=0
  - audit=0
  - mce=off
  - processor.max_cstate=1
  - intel_idle.max_cstate=0
  - idle=poll
  cpu:
    isolated: "2-23,26-47"
    reserved: "0,1,24,25,48-59"
    offlined: "" <1>
  nodeSelector:
    node-role.kubernetes.io/worker-cnf: ""
  numa:
    topologyPolicy: single-numa-node
  realTimeKernel:
    enabled: true
----

> <1> Optional. You can list CPUs in the `offlined` field to take the specified CPUs offline.

Reviewer 2: What does this step do?
Can you just tell folks to edit the PerformanceProfile?

> .. Set the offline CPUs in the performance profile and save the contents of the file.

Reviewer 2: Do we need a _ by running the following command_ phrase here to keep parallel with the previous sub-step? Or is it obvious enough how to do it?

Author: If I understand it correctly, this is just saving and editing the contents of the Performance Profile in a yaml file.

+
.Example updated performance profile
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: performance.openshift.io/v2
kind: PerformanceProfile
metadata:
  name: performance
spec:
  additionalKernelArgs:
  - nmi_watchdog=0
  - audit=0
  - mce=off
  - processor.max_cstate=1
  - intel_idle.max_cstate=0
  - idle=poll
  cpu:
    isolated: "2-23,26-47"
    reserved: "0,1,24,25"
    offlined: “48-59” <1>
  nodeSelector:
    node-role.kubernetes.io/worker-cnf: ""
  numa:
    topologyPolicy: single-numa-node
  realTimeKernel:
    enabled: true
----

> <1> Lists the CPUs taken offline.

Reviewer 2: Maybe this is my ignorance. The CPUs listed here will be taken off line as soon as you `oc apply`? Or the NTO is allowed to take these CPUs offline if they are not needed?

Reviewer 3: The change will update the generated Machine Config and that will cause a reboot immediately unless the MC is paused.

Reviewer 2: @MarSik @amolnar-rh  I apologize for not being more clear. It is not clear to me what the procedure does. 
Is the user taking the specified CPUs off line by editing the MC? 
Or, is the user configuring things so that the NTO can take those CPUs off line as it wants?

Author: @MarSik @marioferh Could you please take a look and clarify?

Reviewer: the flow is, 
- With PerformanceProfileCreator you can generate a Performance Profile (or by hand, but much better with creator)
- label the node
- unpause mcp in order to apply changes
- mcp pics mc
- mc is applied and some system reboots can be done
- 
https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.6/scalability_and_performance/cnf-performance-addon-operator-for-low-latency-nodes.html#performance-addon-operator-provisioning-worker-with-real-time-capabilities_cnf-master
